Version Tracking Updates (#8602)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/version_tracking/_index.md

You can add columns to or remove columns from this overview table and your selections will be saved.  The additional available columns are:

- Endpoints that are active in a version that were not in the previous version.
- Time active, showing the length of time from the first trace to the last trace sent to Datadog for that version.
- Total number of Requests.
- Total number of Errors.
- Latency measured by p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, or max.

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/VersionComparison.png" alt="Versions on the Service Page"  style="width:100%;">}}

**Note:** The version section appears only if there is more than one version reporting during the time interval that is selected at the top of the page.

## Version comparison

Click on any version row in the version summary table to open a version comparison page, allowing you to compare two versions of the same service.  By default, the selected version will be compared to the immediately previous version but you can change it to compare any two versions within the past 30 days.

You can find the following information on version comparison page:

> - [Comparison Graphs](#comparison-graphs) for a visualization of requests and errors to services, useful for watching various types of [deployments](#version-deployment-strategies).

Author: ```suggestion
- [Comparison Graphs](#comparison-graphs): A visualization of requests and errors to services, useful for watching various types of [deployments](#version-deployment-strategies).
```

further_reading:

>     - link: 'getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging/'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - link: 'getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging/'
    - tag: "Documentation"
```

      text: 'Learn about Unified Service Tagging and reserved tags'

>     - link: 'tracing/app_analytics'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - link: 'tracing/app_analytics'
    - tag: "Documentation"
```

## Using Version Tags on the Service Page

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ServicePageRequestsErrorsByVersion.png" alt="Versions on the Service Page"  style="width:100%;">}}

On the Service page, if the `version` tag is available, the requests widget can be scoped to either of:

- Total Requests by Version
- Requests per second by Version

The errors widget can be scoped to one of three options that involve the `version` tag:

- Total Errors by Version
- Errors per second by Version
- % Error rate by Version

Both of these can be exported to dashboards and monitors.

## Version Summary Table

Services configured with `version` tags have a version section on the Service page, immediately below the main service health graphs. This section shows all versions of the service that were active during the selected time interval, with currently active services at the top.

By default you will see:

- The version name(s) deployed for this service over the timeframe.
- The times traces corresponding to this version were first and last seen.

> - An indication of how many types of errors appear in each version that did not appear in the immediately previous version.

Author: Specifically pulled the extra info out because it ruins the table aesthetic if the one section is super long. Wdyt?

Additionally, fields can be added or removed from this overview table and your selections will be saved.  The additional fields are:

- Endpoints that are active in a version that were not in the previous version.
- Time active, showing the length of time from the first trace to the last trace sent to Datadog for that version.
- Total number of Requests.
- Total number of Errors.
- Latency measured by p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, or max.

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/VersionComparison.png" alt="Versions on the Service Page"  style="width:100%;">}}

**Note:** The `version` section of of the service page will only appear if there is more than one version reporting in the selected time interval at the top of the page.

## Version Comparison

Clicking on any version row in the Version Summary table will open a detailed version comparison page, allowing you to compare two specific version of the same service.  By default, the selected version will be compared to the immediately previous version but this can be changed to compare any two versions within the past 30 days.

There are three main components of version comparison:

> - [Comparison Graphs](#comparison-graphs) for a visualization of requests and errors to services, useful for watching various types of [deployments](#version-deployment-strategies).

Author: Do you want the same colon structure here @kayayarai ?

Reviewer: Yeah! [Comparision graphs](): A visualization...

- [Error Comparison](#error-comparison) to see errors that may have been introduced or solved by a deployment.
- [Endpoint Comparison](#endpoint-comparison) to see how endpoint latency and error rates are performing in different versions of the service.

### Comparison Graphs

Requests and Error graphs are available in this section, much like the graphs on the Service Page. These graphs highlight the selected versions for comparison but leave all other versions in gray for additional context. These allow for a quick overview of a deployment rollout or the identification of a spike in error rates.

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ComparisonGraphs.png" alt="Version Comparison Graphs" style="width:100%;">}}

### Error Comparison

> This section lists differences in error types detected for each version, highlighting error types appearing only in the source version for easy troubleshooting, error types no longer appearing there for easy validation of fixes and error types active in both.  From this table, you can pivot immediately into live or historical traces corresponding to the selected error for further investigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists differences in error types detected for each the two versions, highlighting:

 - Error types appearing only in the source version, useful for troubleshooting it;
 - Error types no longer appearing in the source version, useful for validating fixes; and 
 - Error types active in both.  
 
From this table, you can pivot into live or historical traces corresponding to the selected error for further investigation.
```

> **Note:** This is based on observed error types and if one error type is rare it might be represented as no longer appearing just because it has not been seen yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Error comparison is based on _observed_ error types. If an error type is rare, it might be listed as no longer appearing only because it has not been seen _yet_.
```

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ErrorComparison.gif" alt="Error Comparison"  style="width:100%;">}}

> ### Endpoint Comparison

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Endpoint comparison
```

> This section lets you compare the performance (requests, latency and errors) of each endpoint in the service. The table can be sorted by absolute values or by the change between versions allowing to easily detect large swings in latency or error rates or to validate that the highest throughput endpoints are still healthy following a deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lets you compare the performance (requests, latency, and errors) of each endpoint in the service. Sort the table by Value to validate that the highest-throughput endpoints are still healthy following a deploy, or by % Change to spot large changes in latency or error rates.
```

This page describes specific ways you can use the `version` tag to better monitor deployments and service behavior. See the [Unified Service Tagging][1] docs for instructions for setting up the tags.

## Using Version Tags on the Service Page

> {{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ServicePage.png" alt="Versions on the Service Page"  style="width:100%;">}}

Reviewer 2: 1. Can we remove the yellow series from the graph and retake the screenshot?
2. Can we change the error graph to error %?

On the Service page, if the `version` tag is available, the requests widget can be scoped to either of:

- Total Requests by Version
- Requests per second by Version

The errors widget can be scoped to one of three options that involve the `version` tag:

- Total Errors by Version
- Errors per second by Version
- % Error rate by Version

> All of these can be exported to dashboards and monitors.

Reviewer 2: "Both", not "All"

## Version Summary Table

Services configured with version tags will have a `version` section on the Service page, immediately below the main service health graphs.  This table will show all versions of the service that were active during the selected time interval, with currently active services at the top.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we normally use the future tense in docs? I would expect everything to be in the present tense. 
>Services configured with version tags have a `version` section on the Service page, immediately below the main service health graphs.  This section shows all versions of the service that were active during the selected time interval, with currently active services at the top.

By default you will see:

- The version name(s) deployed for this service over the timeframe.

> - The times traces corresponding to this version was first and last seen.

Reviewer 2: "were", not "was"

> - An indication of how many types of errors appear in each version that did not appear in the immediately previous version.  Note that this is a not a guarantee the version introduced these errors, but an indication that this error was not seen for the previous version.  Based on how you are performing deployments, it can be a great way to begin investigating errors.

Reviewer 2: I would move the note to an asterisk, it's cumbersome to read like this

- Requests per second.
- Error rate as a percentage of total requests.

Additionally, fields can be added or removed from this overview table and your selections will be saved.  The additional fields are:

> - Endpoints that appear in a version that did not appear in the previous version.

Reviewer 2: If we're going with precision over ease of comprehension, I'd add "**New** endpoints that appear..."

Reviewer 2: Or switch "appear" to "are active"

- Time active, showing the length of time from the first trace to the last trace sent to Datadog for that version.
- Total number of Requests.
- Total number of Errors.

> - Latency measured by p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, or the true max.

Reviewer 2: Can skip "true" here, it raises more questions about where we don't show a true value

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/VersionComparison.png" alt="Versions on the Service Page"  style="width:100%;">}}

**Note:** The `version` section of of the service page will only appear if there is more than one version reporting in the selected time interval at the top of the page.

## Version Comparison

Clicking on any version row in the Version Summary table will open a detailed version comparison page, allowing you to compare two specific version of the same service.  By default, the comparison will compare the version clicked to the immediately previous version, but this can be changed to compare any two versions within the past 30 days.

> 

Reviewer 3: _By default, the comparison will compare the version clicked to the immediately previous version, but this can be changed to compare any two versions within the past 30 days._

seems a little awkward, what about something like:

_By default, the selected version will be compared to the immediately previous version but this can be changed to compare any two versions within the past 30 days._

There are three main components of version comparison:

- [Comparison Graphs](#comparison-graphs) for a visualization of requests and errors to services, useful for watching various types of [deployments](#version-deployment-strategies).
- [Error Comparison](#error-comparison) to see errors that may have been introduced or solved by a deployment.
- [Endpoint Comparison](#endpoint-comparison) to see how endpoint latency and error rates are performing in different versions of the service.

### Comparison Graphs

> Similar graphs to the main service page will appear, however all other versions than the two being specifically compared will be combined and labelled as 'Other versions', allowing a quick overview of a deployment or difference in error rate to be quickly noticed.

Reviewer 2: How about: "Requests and Error graphs are available in this section, much like the graphs on the Service Page. These graphs highlight the selected versions for comparison but leave all other versions in gray for additional context. These allow for a quick overview of a deployment rollout or the identification of a spike in error rates."

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ComparisonGraphs.png" alt="Version Comparison Graphs" style="width:100%;">}}

### Error Comparison

> This section will list error types that appear in either or both versions of the service.  While not a guarantee that errors have been introduced or solved, due to potentially limited traffic or other conditions for the error to occur, you can pivot from this page immediately into live or historical traces corresponding to this error for further investigation.

Reviewer 2: 1. Future vs. present tense.
2. 2 of 2.5 lines of this explanation are a passive-aggressive way of saying something every decent engineer will understand. Why not go with something along the lines of: "This section lists differences in error types detected for each version, highlighting error types appearing only in the source version for easy troubleshooting, error types no longer appearing there for easy validation of fixes and error types active in both. Note: This is based on observed error types and if one error type is rare it might be represented as no longer appearing just because it has not been seen yet"

Reviewer 2: Then we can add the ability to pivot immediately to live and historical traces.

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/ErrorComparison.gif" alt="Error Comparison"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Endpoint Comparison

> This section shows all the endpoints for the service, along with a comparison between the performance of requests to these endpoints between the two versions.  The table can be sorted up or down according to latency, request volume or error rate to surface the most meaning potential performance improvement or degredation, and also filtered to show common or new endpoints.

Reviewer 2: Seems a bit overcomplex, why not start with: "This section lets you compare the performance (requests, latency and errors) of each endpoint in the service. The table can be sorted by absolute values or by the change between versions allowing to easily detect large swings in latency or error rates or to validate that the highest throughput endpoints are still healthy following a deploy."

For example, you can see in the following image that a canary version was deployed, had a few errors, and was removed, with traces corresponding to that version available for investigation without any further impact.

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/CanaryDeploy.png" alt="Canary Deployment"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Shadow deploys

In a shadow deployment, a release candidate version is deployed alongside the production version, and incoming traffic is sent to both services, with users seeing the results only from production, but letting you collect data from both.

Shadow deploys allow you to test a potential release against real production traffic. Tagging shadows with a `version` tag lets you compare error rates, traces, and service behavior between the two versions to determine if the shadow version should be released.

> ## Using Version Tags elsewhere within Datadog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using version tags elsewhere within Datadog
```

### Trace Search and Analytics

{{< img src="tracing/version_tracking/AnalyticsErrorsByVersion.gif" alt="Version in App Analytics"  style="width:100%;">}}

When available, `version` can be used as a tag for both Trace Search and Analytics, either to filter the live search mode and indexed traces, or to filter or group analytics queries.

Analytics, including filtering on the `version` tag, can be exported to dashboards and monitors.

> ### Profiles by Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Profiles by version
```

> In addition to being able to search for Profiles corresponding to a specific version, profiles corresponding to versions being compared can be loaded in a single click using the 'View Profiles' link on the top right of the [Version Comparison](#version-comparison) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can search for profiles that correspond to a particular version. You can also compare profiles that correspond to versions you're comparing by clicking **View Profiles** on the top right of the [Version Comparison](#version-comparison) page.
```
